Add upload streaming article. (#3525)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/fetch-upload-streaming/index.md

---
layout: post
title: Streaming requests with the fetch API
authors:
  - jakearchibald
description: >
  Chrome 85 has an experimental implementation of streaming uploads, which you
  can use on live sites using the origin trial.
origin_trial:
  url: https://developers.chrome.com/origintrials/#/view_trial/-7680889164480380927
date: 2020-07-22
updated: 2020-07-22
hero: hero.jpg
alt: A conoe pointed up stream.
---

Chrome 85 has an experimental implementation of request streams, meaning you can
start making a request before you have the whole body available.

You could use this to:

- Warm up the server. In other words, you could start the request once the user
  focuses a text input field, and get all of the headers out of the way, then
  wait until the user presses 'send' before sending the data they entered.
- Gradually send data generated on the client, such as audio, video, or input data.
- Recreate web sockets over HTTP.

> But, like all low-level web platform features, I'm more excited about the
> ideas I haven't thought of myself!

Author: ```suggestion
But since this is a low-level web platform feature, don't be limited by _my_ ideas. 
Maybe you can think of a much more exciting use-case for request streaming.
```

Author: I accidentally overwrote your improvement. Here I'm putting it back.

> ideas I haven't thought of ourselves!

Author: ```suggestion
ideas I haven't thought of myself!
```

Reviewer: Good catch! But I'd like go flip this the other way if it makes sense:

```suggestion
ideas we haven't thought of ourselves!
```

> But, like all low-level web platform features, I'm more excited about the
> ideas I haven't thought of ourselves!

Reviewer: How about:

```suggestion
But since this is a low-level web platform feature, don't feel limited by _my_ ideas. Maybe you can think of a much more exciting use-case for request streaming.
```

## Try out request streams

### Enabling support during the origin trial phase

> Fetch request streams will be available as an origin trial in Chrome 85. The

Author: ```suggestion
Fetch request streams are available in an origin trial as of Chrome 85. The
```

Reviewer: I'm happy with the change. Fwiw I copied it from the portals article.

origin trial is expected to end in Chrome 87.

{% include 'content/origin-trials.njk' %}

### Register for the origin trial {: #register-for-ot }

{% include 'content/origin-trial-register.njk' %}

### Enabling via chrome://flags {: #enable-flags }

Try out request streams in Chrome 85 by flipping an experimental flag:
`enable-experimental-web-platform-features`.

## Demo {: #demo }

<div class="glitch-embed-wrap" style="height: 480px; width: 100%;">
  <iframe
    src="https://glitch.com/embed/#!/embed/fetch-request-stream?path=index.html&attributionHidden=true"
    alt="fetch-request-stream on Glitch"
    style="height: 100%; width: 100%; border: 0;">
  </iframe>
</div>

This shows how you can stream data from the user to the server, and send data
back that can be processed in real time.

> Yeah ok it isn't the most imaginative example, I just wanted to keep it simple

Author: ```suggestion
Yeah ok it isn't the most imaginative example, I just wanted to keep it simple,
```

okay?

Anyway, how does this work?

## Previously on the exciting adventures of fetch streams

_Response_ streams have been available in all modern browsers for a while now.
They allow you to access parts of a response as they arrive from the server:

```js
const response = await fetch(url);
const reader = response.body.getReader();

while (true) {
  const { value, done } = await reader.read();
  if (done) break;
  console.log('Received', value);
}

console.log('Response fully received');
```

Each `value` is a `Uint8Array` of bytes. The number of arrays you get and the
size of the arrays depends on the speed of the network. If you're on a fast

> connection, you'll get fewer larger 'chunks' of data. If you're on a slow
> connection, you'll get more smaller chunks.

Author: ```suggestion
connection, you'll get fewer, larger 'chunks' of data. If you're on a slow
connection, you'll get more, smaller chunks.
```

result as soon as you receive it, rather than waiting for all 100.

Anyway, that's response streams, the exciting new thing I wanted to talk about
is request streams.

## Streaming request bodies

Requests can have bodies:

```js
await fetch(url, {
  method: 'POST',
  body: requestBody,
});
```

Previously, you needed the whole body ready to go before you could start the
request, but now in Chrome 85 you can provide your own `ReadableStream` of data:

```js
function wait(milliseconds) {
  return new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(resolve, milliseconds));
}

const stream = new ReadableStream({
  async start(controller) {
    await wait(1000);
    controller.enqueue('This ');
    await wait(1000);
    controller.enqueue('is ');
    await wait(1000);
    controller.enqueue('a ');
    await wait(1000);
    controller.enqueue('slow ');
    await wait(1000);
    controller.enqueue('request.');
    controller.close();
  },
}).pipeThrough(new TextEncoderStream());

fetch(url, {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain' },
  body: stream,
});
```

The above will send "This is a slow request" to the server, one word at a time,
with a one second pause between each word.

> The chunks of a request body need to be `Uint8Array`s of bytes, so I'm using

Author: ```suggestion
Each chunk of a request body needs to be a `Uint8Array` of bytes, so I'm using
```

### Writable streams

> Sometimes it's easier to work with streams when you have a `WritableStream`. You
> can do this using an identity `TransformStream`, which takes anything that's
> passed to its writable end, and pipes it to the readable end:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes it's easier to work with streams when you have a `WritableStream`. You can do this using an 'identity' stream, which is a readable/writable pair that takes anything that's passed to its writable end, and sends it to the readable end. You can create one of these by calling `new TransformStream()` without any arguments:
```

@jpmedley following up from your comment in the doc

Instead, if the request has a streaming body, and the response is an HTTP
redirect other than 303, the fetch will reject and the redirect will _not_ be
followed.

303 redirects are allowed, since they explicitly change the method to `GET` and
discard the request body.

### HTTP/2 only by default

By default, the fetch will be rejected if the connection isn't HTTP/2. If you
want to use streaming requests over HTTP/1.1, you need to opt in:

```js/3-3
await fetch(url, {
  method: 'POST',
  body: stream,
  allowHTTP1ForStreamingUpload: true,
});
```

{% Aside 'caution' %}
`allowHTTP1ForStreamingUpload` is non-standard and will only be used as part of
Chrome's experimental implementation.
{% endAside %}

According to HTTP/1.1 rules, request and response bodies either need to send a
`Content-Length` header, so the other side knows how much data it'll receive, or
change the format of the message to use [chunked
encoding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chunked_transfer_encoding). With chunked
encoding, the body is split into parts, each with their own content length.

Chunked encoding is pretty common when it comes to HTTP/1.1 _responses_, but

> very rare when it comes to _requests_. Because of this, Chrome a little worried

Author: ```suggestion
very rare when it comes to _requests_. Because of this, Chrome is a little worried
```

about compatibility, so it's opt-in for now.

{% Aside %}
This isn't an issue for HTTP/2, as HTTP/2 data is always 'chunked', although it

> calls them

Author: ```suggestion
calls the chunks
```

between the browser and network.

There may be cases where this software buffers request bodies, or in the case of
HTTP/1.1, doesn't expect chunked encoding, and breaks in some exciting way.

Right now, it's not clear how often this will happen, if at all.

If you want to protect against this, you can create a 'feature test' similar to
the [demo above](#demo), where you try to stream some data without closing the
stream. If the server receives the data, it can respond via a different fetch.
Once this happens, you know the client supports streaming requests end-to-end.

## Feedback welcome

Feedback from the community is crucial to the design of new APIs, so please try
it out and tell us what you think! If you encounter any bugs, please [report
them](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/list), but if you have general
feedback, please send it to the [blink-network-dev Google
Group](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/blink-network-dev).

Photo by [Laura
Lefurgey-Smith](https://unsplash.com/@lauralefurgeysmith?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText)
on

> [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/canoe-stream?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText)

Reviewer: Is this a copy/paste error? The image doesn't appear on the page

Author: I forgot to add it to the metadat. I fixed it.
